# CONCLUSIONS

## Time to Put on Your Big Boy/Girl Shoes

If, after going through all of the above, you’re confident in your ability to do what is necessary to succeed – or even if you’re not entirely sure and you want to try anyway – the final lesson, and arguably the most important one is this: 

*If you going to start a business, you have to be a grown up.*

This is prime adulting time. You have to be serious. You have to be thoughtful. You have to make hard decisions and be prepared for what follows – good and bad.

Everyone’s home life growing up was different, but let’s assume for a moment a stereotypical upbringing in the middle class. Dad told you not to do things for a reason. Mom would not buy you certain things for a reason. It’s not because they were mean, or because they didn’t get those things when they were kids so damned if you will. They denied you because it was the smart thing to do. Jumping off the garage roof with a bedsheet for a parachute is not safe. Marshmallows for breakfast is not healthy. They guided, cajoled, and recommended you follow certain courses of action because it was the path most likely to lead to you being safe and having a life at least as good if not better than theirs. That’s the way being a grown-up works, or at least it’s supposed to.

If you’re a 10x hacker and you’ve got aspirations of being the CEO of a unicorn, do not think that what got you to where you are today will get you to standing at the podium of the NASDAQ running the opening bell. Today you’re a hacker. By definition you break things. Your role going forward is to build. You are on the other end of the equation now; someone else -many other someone’s – are going to be working to tear you apart. Something you’ve probably said many times in the past, “man, I can’t believe the developers did that. What were they thinking?” Well, someone a lot better at business and all its components is going to be saying the same thing about you, albeit in a different context. You’re the dummy that people are going to be making fun of. You hve to be ready for that. You have to be willing to accept right now that you’re going to be mistakes. Sometimes big ones. You’ve got to recover and move on. You can’t reboot and start over, you’ve got to deal with the aftermath and move on. 

You are going to have to fire people. You will probably have to fire a friend, or at least a member of your extended network. You will have to make decisions that people are not going to like because it is for the good of the company.

To reiterate several points discussed previously, you’re going to have to fire people. You’re going to have to say ‘no’ to people. You’re going to lose friends. You’re going to alienate people. You’re going to be the butt of jokes. People are going to call you “sell out.” You will look into your nerd-cred account and see that its empty. All of these things are going to make you feel sad. You’re going to get depressed. As a former co-founder put it; at lunch you’re going to think, ‘I’m the shit!’ and by dinner you’re going to think, “I’m complete shit.” You wanted the E-ticket on the five, seven, ten-year roller coaster? You got it.

This doesn’t mean you have to give up black t-shirts, but it does mean you’re going to have to buy and wear a shirt with a collar and a blue blazer, at least. Contrary to popular opinion, you’re not Mark Zuckerberg or Adam Neumann. You’re going to be in situations where people are going to judge you, to one extent or another, by how you dress. No one expects you to be a fashion plate, but showing up in the uniform of the day is a very small thing on your part that can help build rapport with others.

It also doesn’t mean you can’t get on keyboard. You can, but at some point you will have hired people as good or better than you to do that sort of work. Your job now is leadership. Its casting a vision and doing what you can to make sure you have the people and resources necessary to realize that vision. No one expects you to write code. If they’re being honest, no one wants you to write code. If you write code there had better be an exceptionally good reason why, because every minute you’re on keyboard you’re not doing what you’re supposed to be doing. If you’re in the weeds you’re not doing it right.
* It means you have to think before you speak. You don’t get to vent anymore, at least not in front of other people who are not your peers.
* It means thinking of others and not making it all about yourself. The management phrase du jour is “servant leadership” but 
* It means developing a sense of empathy. 
* It means building up some emotional intelligence.

We all know someone who is successful despite not doing any of the above. We know them because odds are they’ve been in the news because of their inability to be a grown-up. We read stories about the colossal downfall of former giants and we tell ourselves, “well of course that was going to happen! Isn’t it obvious you shouldn’t act that way?”

The cast of Adam Neumann is a current and classic example. IF the news reports are accurate, the guy was basically taking other people’s money to form his own cult. I don’t know if you know much about cults, but their ROI tends to be morbidly poor. Japanese investment X SoftBank put $### into Neumann’s WeWork, as did Y and Z. $#### in total for what? An office rental company with a cult of personality. It is easy to point and laugh now, with the benefit of sunlight and hindsight, but epic scale investors like that are not stupid. They know the difference between crazy and “craaaaazy” and at some point they recognized what he was peddling was the right kind of crazy because let’s face it: if you could do that you’d have someone reading this to you while you ate peeled grapes on the veranda of your Lake Como villa. 

Now you might be tempted to look at the Adam Neumann story and think, “Well hell, the guy is still a millionaire! He’s unemployed, but laughing all the way to the bank.” But again, youre not Adam Neumann. You don’t have a thousand dollars to play with much less tens of millions. The number of founders of cybersecurity start-ups who have reached the most rarified air of wealth can be tallied up on one hand, with fingers left over. Sure, plenty of people are rich, but they’re not Bezos rich. They’re not X rich, they’re not even Neumann rich. The merely wealthy don’t get to get away with the shenanigans the really rich do, and that means you can’t act that way and expect to get away with it. 

When someone asks, ‘who is the adult in the room’ you should be the first one to raise your hand. If you see a situation developing that screams for adult intervention, you had better put your best foot forward.  
